[Music]
okay have you ever woken up with the
thought that today you'll face a
life-threatening situation
yeah I mean either I bet most people
don't even think about being in danger
but you know you can't predict when or
where your life might be at risk and it
might happen when no one's around to
save the day in this case you'll have to
become your own hero so learning some
basic safety and survival tricks is
absolutely crucial number one never use
bleach and cleaning products that
contain ammonia at the same time and in
the same room their vapors will mix in
the air and create a toxic gas called
chloramine it can seriously harm your
health leading to problems with
breathing keep in mind that ammonia is a
common ingredient in window cleaning
products - the smell of urine or fish at
home for no apparent reason should set
off alarm bells in your head it's not
that you have an incontinent fish it
means that the electrical wiring might
be melting which can lead to a fire or
even an explosion cut off the
electricity until you figure out what's
happening 3 try not to leave a pan or a
deep fryer unsupervised but if you did
and you're cooking oil cut fire do not
attempt to extinguish this fire with
water it'll only make the flames shoot
higher instead immediately turn off the
heat and cover the pan with a damp cloth
or a lid it'll starve the fire of oxygen
putting it out alternatively if a fire
is still small and therefore manageable
dump a handful of baking soda or salt on
it it'll smother the flames a kitchen
fire extinguisher can also be handy here
number 4 if your car conks out in the
middle of a railroad track and a train
is approaching abandon the vehicle as
fast as you can after that run away from
the track but towards the upcoming train
if you choose the same direction as the
train is moving you'll find yourself in
the path of your late cars debris and
you'll have to duck under the flying big
pieces
five the most common heat stroke
symptoms are nausea and dizziness but
how can you be sure of its heat stroke
if these symptoms are common for so many
other issues well eat something sweet
like a lump of sugar or candy
if the treat tastes disgusting
immediately seek medical help you're
having a heat stroke sex imagine your
car got stuck far away from civilization
and you don't have a phone or radio to
call for help in this case a simple
spare tire can save your life while
burning it will produce thick black
smoke visible from miles away and
chances are somebody will notice your
SOS signal but remember this never ever
wander far away from your car
all too often rescuers find undamaged
deserted vehicles while the drivers
who've left them in search of help don't
survive seven you've probably heard that
lightning doesn't hit in the same place
twice well guess what it's just a
misconception the probability of a
second strike is pretty high that's why
you should stay away from a spot hit by
lightning the safest option is to lie
down in some hollow in the ground since
lightning tends to hit higher groundz
get rid of all metal objects and your
mobile phone three to four seconds
before lightning strikes
you'll feel a metallic taste in your
mouth and your hair will stand on end
immediately sit down bring your heels
together and place your hands on your
knees eight if you suspect that some
object might be electrified but you have
to check it touch it with the back of
your hand this way if your suspicions
are correct you'll get a charge out of
it and you'll be able to snatch your
hand back but if you touch this object
with your palm the electric charge will
make your hand form a tight fist and you
won't be able to draw it back
9 you can make a fatal mistake if you
follow the popular misconception of
trying to suck the venom out of a
snakebite the same goes for applying
bandages and something cold on the wound
or burning it what you have to do is
give the victim an antihistamine make
that a drink a lot and take them to a
hospital right away
never touch the area around the wound
otherwise the venom will spread way
faster 10 if you're calling an emergency
service
first of all give them your address only
after that should you explain the reason
for your call in this case even if
something or somebody forces you to end
the conversation the operator will
already know where to send help
11 if you get disoriented after diving
and can't figure out which way you
should swim to get back to the surface
exhale the bubbles will start to rise
and all you have to do is to follow them
12 any scratch or bite receive from a
wild animal can lead to rabies within 10
to 15 minutes after the accident you
should thoroughly wash the wound and
rush to a hospital every next hour
lowers your chances of survival rabies
is a fatal viral disease which is next
to impossible to cure if too much time
passes after you come into contact with
an infected animal 13 if you're crossing
the road and see a bright Sun reflection
on the windshield of an oncoming car
chances are the driver won't see you let
them pass
even if according to the road rules you
have the right-of-way 14 always plug
your nose when you jump into a lake or a
pond from high up feet first
the water could be swarming with
dangerous one-celled animals and the
most horrifying among them is something
known as the brain eating amoeba
if you don't plug your nose this amoeba
can get into your nasal cavity with a
powerful stream of water from there it
can reach your brain and as you may
guess from its name this won't end well
on the other hand if you simply swallow
this one celled organism it won't harm
you
so ever 15 if you find yourself in a
situation where you can only get out of
your car through the window grab the
heaviest thing you can and aim for the
edges of the glass not the center the
windows are most vulnerable in the
corners 16 now it may sound bizarre but
a bottle of water can actually start a
fire if it stays under direct sunlight
long enough in this case the bottle will
act as a lens gathering all the heat in
one spot never leave bottles lying
around in a car on a sunny day and keep
them away from windows at home 17 if you
find yourself face to face with a
tornado and it seems to be hovering over
the same area it's most likely moving
toward you choose an upright standing
object and focus on it if the tornado
isn't moving to the left or to the right
of the object you've picked it means
it's moving either towards you or away
don't take any chances
run to the side of the monstrosity x'
paths 18 a metallic taste in your mouth
while you're in a large body of water or
in the swimming pool
screams danger it means that somewhere
around there's an electrical
short-circuit immediately get out of the
water if you touch the source of this
short-circuit well let's just say they
don't call it Friday for nothing 19 if
your car skids you can regain control of
it by steering in the direction of the
skill rather than against it on top of
that the risk of flipping a car will be
lower in this case but the main thing
never slam on the brakes 20 admittedly
the chance is that one day you'll find
yourself sinking in quicksand are pretty
low but if it ever happens
first of all throw away all your
belongings to make yourself lighter all
while taking tiny steps back toward
solid ground however if you've already
sunk waist-deep carefully lie down face
up as if you were floating on water it
will disperse your weight and help you
to stay afloat
after that begin moving towards the
shore very slowly and with a
of only your legs don't hurry this
process often takes hours how about you
have you ever used any survival tricks
to get out of a dangerous situation let
me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go checking
for incontinent fish just yet hmm
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy remember stay on the bright side
of life